Long hours? Yeah, long hours. And so the first
thing you do is analyze as to whether or not you
really want to be a leader. It's a lot easier to be in
the background, because if you're on the front
line, everybody's looking at you. A lot more
demanding. And it's a lot more demanding. And
there's a lot more pressure on you. So the question
is, can you stand the pressure? or you're going to
get ulcers over it. And I found that a lot of people
were just made poor commanders. In fact,
Napoleon, I think, said that there are no bad
regiments, there are only bad colonels.
The second, okay, the first thing is if you want to
be a leader, okay, there's one. I'll tell you the
next thing is, decide what job you want. Then make a
study of that particular job as to what
qualifications the individual who has a job has
and draw yourself up an educational plan, a job
plan to be qualified to take that job. Go out and get
the training or the education that's necessary.
Education and whatever, if it's a And I would say
that almost any leader needs to be able to be an
accountant type. An accountant type. What does
that mean? Well, I don't mean an accountant type.
He needs to have the ability to
keep the books or look at a financial statement and
be able to analyze a financial statement. and to be
able to analyze financial data. I think in the
building business, had I not been a professional
bookkeeper or accountant, I would have been lost
if you had to depend on somebody else to keep the
books. Because in the early stages of any company,
why the critical item is your finances. And you
have to be on top of it on a day-to-day basis. So you
just have to, as far as I'm concerned, you have to be
a bookkeeper of some sort to,
in regards of what job you are. Almost all the
students that we are sponsoring down at Texas A&M,
I recommend it's somewhere along the line. one or
two of their electives be an accountant so that
they know how to
keep books and be able to analyze whether or not
they're making a profit. Even if they're working
for somebody else, why should they be able to find
out if they themselves are making a profit? And the
other thing that has done me the most good is being a
typist. I learned typing early and I figured I got
my poem at the west point by typing letters. All my
research and books and things of this sort, I typed
it out. I'll agree that now your copying machine
has come into the being where for five cents you can
put a book and get a copy of a page that you
particularly want and file it away. then why it was
a matter of typing these
jewels that you ran across in books.
I think that's along with the other
qualifications of enthusiasm and with
imagination, willing to work night and day to to
reach your goal, I think that's it.
Okay. There's another thing that you said during
our interview, I think it might have been
yesterday, that I was interested in, the last
thing that I'd like to talk about as far as
leadership is concerned. You said that you have to
be willing to rock the boat. Now, I've heard a lot of
people say about the military, well, it's a guy
that gets ahead who doesn't rock the boat, he just
fits in and just takes the orders and carries them
out. And you're telling me that you have to be able
to rock the boat. Would you explain that? Well,
you're...
Well, if you... Well, it's the same thing as
whether or not you're rocking a boat or create
waves or... As far as I'm concerned, if you're
going to be a commander, why, you have to be willing
to... look at a situation and if it requires
changing why get it changed.
And I'll agree that when you rock the boat you come
to somebody's attention. And if you don't rock the
boat why then might get a good efficiency report,
but sooner or later, as far as I'm concerned,
you're going to be found out.
Because I used to write efficiency reports on,
when I was in the National Security Agency, we used
to have some members of there that I had to write
efficiency reports on. Well, the guys that didn't
rock the boat, well, you just said, well, you
hadn't heard anything good about him, you hadn't
heard anything bad about him, so you rate him
probably above average because he had been
selected as,
but if he had been rocking the boat, well, then he
comes to attention, so you knew what he was doing.
Now, maybe if you didn't like what he was doing,
well, maybe you'd rate him down a little bit, but I
just think that In other words, when you rock the
boat in the military, you should make your ways,
but you should be pretty sure that you're on the
right path. On the right track, yeah. Because if
you rock the boat and you're not on the right path,
then you could be in trouble.
Is this part of the creativity aspect then? Well, I
think the... Coming up with ideas? Creativity is
to come up with ideas, and actually you get your
ideas from reading magazines, reading books,
collecting documents. And then when you need to,
well, I think this is education. I think you're
really, education is the, you are educating
yourself not to have something stored in your
brain, but where you can find it. And this is the
reason that I've collected such an extensive file
on how to be a success, how to be a failure.
This, if I want to review how to be a success or the
value of reading, you just go to a file, pick out all
of these articles that have been written on it, and
refresh yourself. And I used to take vile
speeches. which is a very good magazine on the good
speeches and of the week. I think it's almost a
weekly magazine. It was a weekly and maybe a
monthly now. And I used to take that and there's
always someone made a speech that really put words
in the right contacts that you liked and it fits in
right with your idea so you just tear it out and put
it in a file someplace.
But I think if you're out in front you just can't be a
non-entity as a commander. You just have to be
willing to, as you say, rock the boat and everybody
will... Make those decisions. It'll attract the
attention of both the people above, and it'll also
attract all the attention of the people below.
Well, during this interview, we've talked about
your early years, your education, both at A&M, and
compared that with West Point, your military
career, your ideas on leadership. There must be
something else that... Is there anything else
that we've left? I'm sure that in every man's life,
there's a lot of things that you leave out that are
important to the development of a general
officer, but is there anything that you'd just
like to to talk on before we close because I'm out of
questions. Well I'm out of talking I think. Okay.
Well thank you very much General Hetherington for
this. I know Texas A&M, the former students and I
really appreciate it.